I just remember this being in my nightmares
after seeing it once, giving me a fear
I didn't know I had.
It does keep you up at night.
Keep you up at night... Keep you up at night...
Hello, everybody.
My name's Isaiah,
but you probably know me as Wendigoon.
Today, I'm sitting down for a very
special Halloween-themed exploration
through my YouTube watch history.
So this is my YouTube
watch history for the past few weeks.
All right.
Well, let's see what we find.
Let's see.
So this video - excellent - is by Whang.
The dude makes great content,
but this video specifically “Coordinates
to a buried body found at a thrift store”.
The truth is under and underneath
it says the body lies at...
And there's a series of coordinates.
It's exactly what it says.
This guy was at a thrift store, found
random coordinates, decided to end up posting
it to the Internet, and supposedly
came across a dead body.
Whang covers these internet mysteries that, again,
are things I didn't even know existed
until the dude makes a video about them.
There's a lot of topics
I won't cover just because,
you know, my parents watch my videos.
I don't want to go full bore
with some of the grisly, disturbing stuff.
But Whang has no apprehension about that.
He talks about some of the grossest stories
I have ever heard and I love ‘em.
They're great.
Your channel is named after a local
cryptid creature...
Mm hmm.
Can you tell us about that?
Yes. Yeah.
So my my channel is called Wendigoon
which is a combination of the words
Wendigo and Goon.
The Wendigo is a creature
from Native American folklore,
specifically the Algonquin tribe.
It is, in their lore, a creature
that develops when someone commits
an act of cannibalism.
That if anyone gives in
to this inclination,
this demonic spirit
or dark spirit will possess them.
Something that's always interested me
about the Wendigo...
As a lot of the settlers came
in, the stories began to change about it.
It went from this kind of spirit
of the woods
to like this monster,
this thing that needed to be hunted down.
It's something that's very personal
with me, but it's also the way that
the legend of the Wendigo itself
has adapted and changed throughout time...
And the way
I want to look at stories because of it.
Perfect.
Immediately. Fredrick
Knudsen with “Down the Rabbit Hole”.
This is his video about Austrian wine
poisoning.
Fredrik Knudsen
honestly makes me jealous.
It's just a description of wine
from Austria and how it works...
And you're like, Who cares?
And then you skip forward in the video
a little bit.
11 adults all shared bottles of Qualitätswein.
By the next day, each of them was feeling
nauseated and dizzy.
By the end of it, you're like, Wow, I'm
so interested in the Austrian wine trade.
Something that 10 minutes ago
I had never even heard of.
That's what makes me jealous.
The ability to do that to an audience.
YouTube is sending me on a scavenger
hunt through my watch history...
and I'll have 15 seconds
to find a video that matches the prompt.
Craziest Halloween costume on YouTube.
All right. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay. Okay. Come on. Load,
load, load. Oh, no. I bet it'll come up.
It's here somewhere.
Yes, I found it. I found it. Found it.
Ha ha ha ha.
I win!
The title's just called
“Four Legged stilt Costumes - Handmade”
It's some kind of thing
that has, against my better
wishes, caught on.
Like after this video happened, more people started doing it.
And I hate it.
I can't stand creatures, monsters,
whatever that move with, like, uncanny,
like broken movements.
It keeps me up at night in a good way.
I mean,
that horror is supposed to be horrible.
So to that effect, I hate it. Nice job.
I am going to ask you to look at it again.
Oh, no, no, no.
Oh, my gosh.
I don’t...
I don't like it.
Like the mask
and the way it moves and stuff like that.
I... no aspect... can I stop looking at it now?
I've never gone to that level
on a costume.
Most of the costumes
I've done are always very low bar.
Like, not that impressive.
The scariest video you've watched.
I know which one.
Hold on.  Hold on.  Okay... it doesn't
count if the internet’s slow.
No, no, no, no.
I found it.
I found it.  No, the internet doesn’t count.
We’re good.
We're good.
I found it.
It would be the “My house walk-through”.
At the time I saw it,
I almost thought that I had dreamt it.
It's such a strange video.
The original video is in Japanese,
and from the subtitles,
we can see that
it's an individual
walking through an abandoned
rundown house.
Each time he walks through the house,
it seems to be that
there is a kind of looping going on
like some kind of time loop.
He'll walk through the house again
and he'll describe the same things over.
But the house is more decrepit.
Like if you skip to further,
everything's covered in like this
red growth now
and it looks like something's
eating the walls almost,
but the narrator doesn't seem to notice.
He's still describing
the same things that he was before.
He's still walking through them,
but the house is getting worse.
I think the thing that interests me
so much
about being scared or like,
you know, scary media in general
is that art exists to elicit emotion
and there are few emotions
you can get across as powerful as fear.
Like you can make someone happy.
Sure.  You can make someone sad.
Those are pretty easy ones.
But to really make someone afraid,
that's something rare.
That's something hard to get across.
The “S.T.A.L.K.E.R. | Shadow of the Zone Film”
Thanks to you all, we were able to crowdfund
and get going,
is in post-production now
and in the creation of that...
I used a lot of things
that I've seen from
stories I found on YouTube.
Oh, we lost...
We lost lights, uh, just give us a second.
Cool.
So I'm going to pull
the topic out of here
and then we're going to see
where it goes?
Yeah.
Got it.
K.
All right, hold on. What we got here?
True crime. Excellent. True crime.
This is a fun one. All right.
JCS.  Son spends $275,000 of Dad's virtual...
of Dad’s money on virtual girlfriend.
Yes, not his virtual money.
It was real money.
Grant Amado was sentenced
to life in prison
without the possibility of parole.
JCS is a channel
that I'm enamored with,
as are a lot of other people.
They've climbed
the subscriber ranks faster than I think
any other channel
I've seen on the platform.
And rightfully so.
JCS takes interrogations
that have happened in criminal cases,
most often murder cases,
and dissects them from a psychology
point of view.
For example,
a person may simply shift
their weight or cross their arms or
hold themself in such a way
that you wouldn't think anything of it.
But then, as JCS points out,
they have some strategy going on, or perhaps
it's just some exhibition of stress
or what have you.
And another detail I like about JCS
is the way they're able to give respect
to a lot of the victims
or a lot of these cases.
And it's something
that I ask myself a lot like
how do I be respectful
while also talking
about a sensitive issue?
A lot of times I'll need to sit
with a video topic for a while and think about it.
For example,
I recently
made a video about the Yuba County five.
Four of them were eventually found dead
and one of them is still a missing persons to this day.
And it has been the historic record
for some time
that the one who disappeared
was the perpetrator.
And I came to the conclusion with myself
that I don't think he did it.
I sat with myself a while
before I recorded that video
and thought, like, is this the interpretation
I want to give out?
I want to say about half a dozen video topics
that I have got all the way
to like ready to record.
And then I stop myself because I get
I get to that last stage.
I'm like, I can't talk about this
or I don't
maybe I don't know the way to talk about it.
And channels like JCS
do a great job of that
and are certainly something
to aspire towards in that situation.
With that out of the way,
I guess we can move on to something else.
YouTube has taken four
videos from my watch history
and I have to rank them from the least
to most likely to give me nightmares.
Let's see what we got.
“I watched four disturbing movies
and only one didn't suck” from my boy, Mista GG
If the disturbing aspect of this movie
is supposed to be the quality,
then it's spot on.
What he's really good
at is making scary things digestible,
making them not scary.
Which is what I do, I think.
Or at least what people tell me I do at the same time.
I do not mean this
as a slight
love you, my man,
but I'm going to have to say number four
Fear of cold.
This is “Fear of Cold” by Jacob Geller.
True frigophobia or cryophobia
Fear of the cold isn't a common one.
I've never considered the fear of cold,
but it is a very real thing
that a lot of people experience
and as he talks about in his video, have perished from.
And that is fearful, that's impactful.
I would put it as one,
but I don’t know what else is coming on the list,
so it's hard to rank.
I'm going to put it it two.
I need to save the one spot.
It scared me,
but it didn't like terrify me.
Oh...
well, good.
I'm glad.
I'm glad that I picked that one.
Man, if I would’ve said one and then saw that...
Yeah. Okay, cool.
It's the “My house walk-through”, which we talked about earlier,
as the video that scared me so bad as a young child,
that I thought it was a nightmare.
That's number one.
It has to be.
So, “The vanishing of David Lewis”.
This is by Nexpo.  Again, one of my boys.
Ryan's a great guy.
Karen and Lauren
would arrive back at the home
to discover David nowhere to be found.
“The Vanishing of David Lewis” is regarding
a missing persons case
that I believe was back in the eighties,
maybe the early nineties.
Like he was a normal
guy, had a family or whatnot.
And then he was seen like hundred miles away
hitchhiking on the side of the road
for no reason.
And then after that, he's just gone.
So what happened in between?
Why did he go from one to the other?
And it's those details
that I like so much about these stories.
Looking at these rankings, I'm very happy with it,
because fourth, we have Mista GG,
taking these very disturbing,
scary things, making them not scary.
We have a disappearance case,
something that your mind can
kind of wander with the grisly details of.
And Nexpo also explains it in such a scary manner.
Then we have Jacob Geller.  Giving me a
fear I didn’t know I had,
about the cold and the horrors that humanity face because of it.
And then at number one,
we have a video that I thought
I hallucinated for several years.
So I think
I think that's a pretty solid list.
So if you're looking for nightmares
this Halloween season,
then pick any you want out of this list
at your discretion, of course.
It’s fascinating to me to
go through these videos.
You know, I only started doing YouTube a few years ago,
and whenever I started,
there were a lot of people who were like,
oh, well, you know, ship sailed on that.
And I would watch
like several of the videos
I've talked about today
and be like, I want to be a YouTuber.
I want to get I have stories to tell.
I want to get those across.
I think a lot of people want to know
why they're afraid of something, right?
And things like that interest me so much.
To understand why I’m afraid
of the things that I’m afraid of.
And as a storyteller,
manipulate those to my advantage.